PR for SRVLOGIC-300, SRVLOGIC-190, SRVLOGIC-188, SRVLOGIC-192: Document "Serverless Logic" parent directory for Openshift Serverless Logic docs. (#76490)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/serverless-logic-sending-rest-requests-openAPI-specification.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:

> //

Author: Now added

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

> [id="serverless-logic-sending-rest-requests-openAPI-specification_{context}"]

Author: I have added the context variables in all the affected assemblies and modules now. Thank you for noticing this.

= Sending REST requests based on the OpenAPI specification

To send REST requests that are based on the OpenAPI specification files, you must perform the following procedures:

* Define the function references
* Access the defined functions in the workflow states

.Prerequisites

* {ServerlessLogicOperatorName} is installed on your cluster.

> * You have created a {ServerlessLogicProductName} project or have access to a project with the appropriate roles and permissions to create applications and other workloads in OpenShift Container Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have created a {ServerlessLogicProductName} project or have access to a project with the appropriate roles and permissions to create applications and other workloads in {product-title}.
```

* You have created your {ServerlessLogicProductName} project
* You have access to the OpenAPI specification files.

.Procedure

. To define the OpenAPI functions: 

.. Identify and access the OpenAPI specification files for the services you intend to invoke.

.. Copy the OpenAPI specification files into your workflow service directory, such as `src/main/resources/specs`.
+

> Here is an example of the OpenAPI specification for the multiplication REST service:

Reviewer: "Here" is vague and not an accessibly-friendly term.

+
.Example multiplication REST service OpenAPI specification
[source,yaml]
----
openapi: 3.0.3
info:
  title: Generated API
  version: "1.0"
paths:
  /:
    post:
      operationId: doOperation
      parameters:
        - in: header
          name: notUsed
          schema:
            type: string
          required: false
      requestBody:
        content:
          application/json:
            schema:
              $ref: '#/components/schemas/MultiplicationOperation'
      responses:
        "200":
          description: OK
          content:
            application/json:
              schema:
                type: object
                properties:
                  product:
                    format: float
                    type: number

> components:

Reviewer: components: segment is correclty indented?

Author: Yes, I verified.

      type: object
      properties:
        leftElement:
          format: float
          type: number
        rightElement:
          format: float
          type: number
----

.. To define functions in the workflow, use the `operationId` from the OpenAPI specification to reference the desired operations in your function definitions.
+
.Example function definitions in the temperature conversion application
[source,json]
----
{
   "functions": [
     {
       "name": "multiplication",
       "operation": "specs/multiplication.yaml#doOperation"
     },
     {
       "name": "subtraction",
       "operation": "specs/subtraction.yaml#doOperation"
     }
   ]
}
----

.. Ensure that your function definitions reference the correct paths to the OpenAPI files stored in the `src/main/resources/specs` directory.

. To access the defined functions in the workflow states:

.. Define workflow actions to call the function definitions you added. Ensure each action references a function defined earlier.

.. Use the `functionRef` attribute to refer to the specific function by its name. Map the arguments in the `functionRef` using the parameters defined in the OpenAPI specification.
+

> For more information about mapping parameters in the request path instead of request body, you can refer to the following PetStore API example:

Reviewer: I'm not sure if the "For more information" is needed here as the example is given anyway. Maybe just state "The following example shows..."?

+
.Example for mapping function arguments in workflow
[source,json]
----
{
   "states": [
    {
      "name": "SetConstants",
      "type": "inject",
      "data": {
        "subtractValue": 32.0,
        "multiplyValue": 0.5556
      },
      "transition": "Computation"
    },
    {
      "name": "Computation",
      "actionMode": "sequential",
      "type": "operation", 
      "actions": [
        {
          "name": "subtract",
          "functionRef": {
            "refName": "subtraction", 
            "arguments": { 
              "leftElement": ".fahrenheit",
              "rightElement": ".subtractValue"
            }
          }
        },
        {
          "name": "multiply",
          "functionRef": {
            "refName": "multiplication", 
            "arguments": { 
               "leftElement": ".difference",
               "rightElement": ".multiplyValue"
            }
          }
        }
      ],
      "end": {
        "terminate": true
      }
    }
  ]
}
----

.. Check the `Operation Object` section of the OpenAPI specification to understand how to structure parameters in the request.

> .. Use jq expressions to extract data from the payload and map it to the required parameters. Ensure the engine maps parameter names according to the OpenAPI specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. Use `jq` expressions to extract data from the payload and map it to the required parameters. Ensure the engine maps parameter names according to the OpenAPI specification.
```
